How to set up knife (#1224)
chef/chef-workstation: www/content/workstation/knife_setup.md

[\[edit on GitHub\]](https://github.com/chef/chef-workstation/blob/master/www/content/workstation/knife_setup.md)

knife is a command-line tool that provides an interface between a local chef-repo and the Chef Infra Server. The knife command line tool must be configured to communicate with the Chef Infra Server as well as any other infrastructure within your organization.

The first time you set up Chef Infra, you need to manually create the directory for important Chef Infra files, such as `config.rb`.

We recommend setting up knife to use profiles. Knife profiles let you use knife with more than one Chef Infra Server and with more than one organization on a Chef Infra Server.

To use knife profiles, the first time you set up your workstation enter:

```bash
mkdir ~/.chef
touch ~/.chef/credentials
```

```powershell
New-Item -Path "c:\" -Name ".chef" -ItemType "directory"
New-Item -ItemType "file" -Path "c:\.chef\credentials"
```

> Previous Chef Infra setups recommended setting up knife with a `config.rb` file. Configuring knife with `config.rb` is still valid if you work on one Chef Infra Server with one Chef Infra Server organization.

Author: ```suggestion
Previous Chef Infra setups recommended setting up knife with a `config.rb` file. Configuring knife with `config.rb` is still valid, but only for working on one Chef Infra Server with one Chef Infra Server organization.
```

```bash
mkdir ~/.chef

> touch ~/.chef/config.rb

Author: Does knife configure create the file?
Would it also create the `.chef` directory--or does it create the file in its current directory?
```suggestion
knife configure
```

Reviewer: It appears that `knife configure` will create the `.chef` directory if needed. However, far from creating the `config.rb`, it in fact will complain if it is not present; and then goes on to generate a `credentials` file for managing profiles. I don't think it's the right command for here.

Author: But it is the right command for setting up knife to use profiles, which I'm declaring the preferred method. So, to set up knife for profiles (but not for setting up config.rb), do I say "From your root directory, for example `c:\` or `~/` run `knife profile`?

```

```powershell
New-Item -Path "c:\" -Name ".chef" -ItemType "directory"

> New-Item -ItemType "file" -Path "c:\.chef\config.rb"

Author: ```suggestion
knife configure
```

Reviewer: See previous comment; `knife configure` is probably not what you want.
